has your engagement recently gone down
does it feel like no matter what you do
and what you try nothing is working on
Instagram none of the strategies none of
the advice none of the coaches none of
the courses are working well I hear you
and you aren't alone almost across the
board engagement has gone down on
Instagram in 2023 and that's why today I
have 24 strategies for you to try out in
2024 to hopefully bring up and boost
your Instagram
engagement and of course engagement
matters because engagement is the basis
of Life on Instagram without engagement
you won't get views without views you
won't reach new people without reaching
new people you won't get new followers
and if you're not getting new followers
well then how's anyone ever going to
become a customer engagement is the
basis of everything it all starts with
engagement and so here are my 24 top
Instagram strategies to try out if you
have low engagement or if you want to
boost your engagement in 2024 number one
might sound sound a little bit silly it
might be something you've done before
but it's to take a break I know this
sounds silly but this has been proven to
be very effective with Instagram stories
and it can be effective with the
Instagram feed as well there's no set
amount of time there's no magic number
or formula for this but if you take a
few days off it can more or less allow
your algorithm to reset and thus it
allows future post to potentially do
better if you have post after post after
post you're posting two three four times
a day and they're just consistently not
doing well you're basically consistently
telling the algorithm don't show my post
to new people because the people who are
seeing them don't want to see them
anymore so try taking a few days off and
it might help your Instagram strategy
number two is to upcycle upcycle is a
term that we use here at build your
tribe which essentially means take your
best content from the past and post it
again seeing is how at the time that
you're likely listening to this it is
January 2024 or at least early 2024
let's go back to mid to late 2023 so
let's say August or September maybe even
October of 2023 look through those
months and find your best performing
posts the ones that got the most views
likes comments save shares whatever take
those posts and either directly repost
them again either by First downloading
them or finding them in your camera roll
and then just reposting them or recreate
new versions of those posts maybe you're
going to slightly modify the text the
background audio maybe you're going to
change the captions a little bit make a
few tweaks change it up a little bit and
then post it again this strategy is
called upcycling and with upcycling we
always see great results Almost 100% of
the time when you take a post that did
well in the past and you post it again
it's probably going to do well this time
so if you're struggling to get some
engagement look to the Past look to what
has worked before and share it again
strategy number three is what I like to
call Trend forecasting in Essen ially
what trend forecasting means is looking
at what trends are going to be coming
next and creating your own versions of
those Trends before they blow up often
times when you see someone post that
this is a trending audio alert it's too
late Often by the time you see that
little trending Arrow next to an audio
it's too late tens of thousands of
people have already used it but if you
look to Tik Tok first and this is the
real meat of the strategy look to Tik
Tok first follow some of your favorite
creators over on Tik Tok and notice what
they're doing notice what trends are
emerging what audios are they reusing
and use them on Instagram before anyone
else oftentimes things trend on Tik Tok
one to two weeks before they trend on
Instagram and it is pretty reliable that
if something is trending on Tik Tok
today it will be trending on Instagram
in the future so keep your eye on Tik
Tok keep your eye on some of your
favorite creators over on Tik Tok and
forecast when they are consistently
using some audio or some sort of uh
video type maybe it's a before and after
type thing or what we looked like 5
years ago versus now use that for
inspiration and post it onto Instagram
strategy number four is called the 10x
two method and this was created by my
friend Steven Miller on Instagram
definitely check him out but essentially
what this strategy is going to have you
do is look up 10 creators who are in
your Niche who are popular who are
thought leaders people who are in your
industry who are wellknown look up those
10 people follow all 10 of them turn on
post notifications for all 10 of those
people then find 10 popular hashtags
within your Niche or industry these are
hashtags that people within your
industry are commonly using and commonly
looking at find 10 of those write them
all down now you have two different
lists of 10 and what you're going to do
with these lists is you are going to
stay hyper engaged not just leaving
comments that say this is great love
this but but instead leaving Long
thoughtful comments things that add your
own two cents all the Gary v180 strategy
and essentially you're just giving
yourself a voice at the table you're
making sure that no matter who someone
follows in your industry no matter what
hashtags people are looking up related
to your industry they're able to find
you and they're seeing your name and
your comments over and over again number
five is going to sound a little simple
but it's improve your overall video
quality this could be by making sure
that you have high quality uploads
enabled which is a setting that a lot of
people don't realize they have turned
off maybe you're going to start using a
professional microphone and I know I say
professional but honestly even just a
$115 microphone off of Amazon is going
to be a big quality jump over just your
built-in phone microphone maybe you're
going to start using nicer lighting or
you're going to hire an Eder who's going
to be able to chop up your videos and
make them look that much better
improving your quality is the ultimate
Way to increase your engagement strategy
number six is to change how you use
hashtags if you're someone who always
uses 30 try using four or five if you're
someone who always uses four or five try
using 12 to 18 if you're someone who's
tried everything with hashtags try not
using them at all and I know that sounds
crazy I know that might sound scary to
you but a lot of research has shown us
that hashtags are far less effective in
2024 than they were in the past while I
did do an episode of build your tribe
recently about my best tips and best
practices for hashtags the general
takeaway from that episode is that
they're not very effective and they're
not something that you should be relying
on so if you came to this video with
hashtags those is one of your central
growth strategies you might want to try
abandoning them or at least not worrying
about them so much in 2024 strategy
number seven is to share your reals to
only the reals page right before you
post a real on Instagram there's a
little toggle a little switch that
allows you to either post to both your
home feed and the reals page or only the
reals page this tip is to try posting
only to the reals page now what I will
tell you is that most of the time for
most people this means you're going to
get very low views because essentially
when you do this you're posting to only
the for you page rather than to all of
your existing followers but if your
existing followers are very low or
they're very disengaged as is you might
want to try experimenting with this
strategy as a way to reach new people
strategy number eight is to mix up what
you're posting variety is the spice of
life and the price of likes that's what
I like to say because if you're posting
the same type of thing day after day
after day if all you're doing is posting
reals on Instagram your audience is
going to get bored so try mixing it up
by posting carousels photos reals
different kinds of reals direct to
camera memes infographic all of these
different kinds of content to keep
people engaged and excited strategy
number nine is to use other platforms
besides Instagram to promote your
Instagram whether that is your Twitter
your LinkedIn your threads your Facebook
your YouTube your email list your text
list your group chats your local sewing
Club I don't care what it is use other
platforms to promote your Instagram and
your Instagram will reap the rewards
strategy number 10 is to incentivize
engagement through doing some sort of
giveaway put together some sort of
package make sure it's worth it make
sure it's not just cash because that is
highly frowned upon on Instagram I'm
pretty sure that goes against their
guidelines to give away just cash but
put together a good bundle maybe throw
in a Stanley mug or something make a
bundle that is worthwhile make the cost
of engagement relatively low but make it
something like a share or a like so that
people are incentivized to engage to
enter into the giveaway strategy number
11 is one of my favorites not just
because it's number 11 but because it's
something I do on a weekly basis and
it's something that is so rewarding not
just because it helps you get more
engagement but it actually is just
really fun to do really enjoyable on
Instagram and that is to collaborate
with other people don't overthink this
find someone else in your industry
someone who does what you do or
something similar to what you do someone
who has a similar sized following to you
and then reach out to them and ask them
if they would like to do a collaboration
post then your minds can meld and you
can come together to come up with an
awesome educational funny inspiring real
that your audience and Their audience
will both really love strategy number 12
is to improve your hooks your hook is
absolutely everything whether it's the
first slide of your Carousel the first
sentence in your real the first line in
your caption your hook is everything and
thankfully we have 25 of our top hook
ideas listed down below this episode in
the show notes totally free for you we
analyzed a couple hundred social media
posts and basically broke down what was
their opening sentence what was the hook
that they used in order to have this
effective viral video we put it into a
list of a top 25 we're giving it away to
you totally free all it costs is your
email go ahead and find that in the link
down below improving Your Hooks using a
better Hook is one of the Surefire ways
to improve your content Alex horoi said
that he made 20 times more money when he
spent all of his time focusing on the
hooks in his content when he improved
his hooks
he made 20 times more money that in and
of itself should be enough of an
encouragement to start improving Your
Hooks and to download that free guide
that we have for you down below strategy
number 13 is to improve your calls to
action if you're not using a call to
action already you need to if you are
using a call to action you could improve
your call to action by potentially doing
a few things number one your call to
action should be the action that people
are already most likely to do so as
someone watches a super educational
video the thing that they're most likely
to do at the end of it is probably not
share it it's probably not leave a long
argumentative comment with their opinion
if they just watched a long educational
video what they're most likely to do at
the end is save said video so when you
get to the end of an educational video
use the call to action save this video
but then my second tip for you is don't
just tell people what to do tell them
why to do save this video If learn
something new save this video if you
found it educational basically remind
people of what they're feeling and why
they should take the action that they're
already feeling called to take strategy
number 14 is to use color psychology
essentially different colors elicit
different subconscious and emotional
responses within our viewers for example
red makes a stop green promotes action
yellow grabs our attention so use colors
wisely in order to grab people's
attention and get get them to take the
actions that you want them to take
strategy number 15 is to hire a coach or
at least seek outside feedback so maybe
if you're not in a financial position
where you can hire a coach or join
something like the insta Club Hub even
doing something as small as reaching out
to your cousin or a coworker or maybe
even a family friend something like that
and showing them some of your recent
content showing them your Instagram
showing them your posts asking for their
raw genuine feedback asking for what
stands out the most what are they
overlooking what do they remember the
most out of your content asking that
sort of feedback on your Instagram from
someone who doesn't already follow you
is a really valuable way to learn about
what a stranger might think of your
social media strategy number 16 is to
follow the 2C rule sometimes called the
three or even the 4 second rule
essentially every few seconds there
should be some sort of edit cut or
change in your video this actually comes
from TV and film so you can imagine
watching a 2hour movie they have this
rule in mind that every few seconds
there needs to be some sort of change
some sort of cut some sort of new person
speaking some sort of transition
something has to be happening every 2 to
3 seconds or else your viewer is going
to get bored and if that's true in a
2-hour movie that's definitely true with
your short form video on your smartphone
so make sure when you are posting your
reels that there is some sort of change
edit transition cut something happening
every 2 to 4 seconds strategy number 17
is really strategy number one which is
that you need to Niche down but I'm
going to put at number 17 because
hopefully you've already niched down
hopefully you already have a clear
person you're talking to and a clear
subject you're talking about but if you
already have The Who and the what my
challenge for you is to Niche down even
further get even more specific don't be
the person who talks about Instagram be
the person who talks about Instagram
reals don't just be the person who talks
about Instagram reals be the person who
talks about Instagram reals for
introverts don't just be the person who
introverts be the person who talks about
Instagram reals for introverts who are
over the age of 45 and living in
northeastern Nebraska get Niche specific
and Niche down even further than you
think is possible strategy number 18 to
boost engagement is to encourage shares
I know we already talked about calls to
action but specifically within calls to
action the best form of engagement on
Instagram is a share because when
someone shares your post the posts reach
more people on average one share equates
to 400 additional views so if you want
more viewers and more engagement get
more shares and create more share worthy
content strategy number 19 is to vary
your posting level now I'm not telling
you to be inconsistent but I am telling
you to test out different amounts of
posting per day for example some people
notice that when they slightly decrease
their posting frequency they get more
engagement on the other hand some people
are only posting once or twice a week as
is and so when jump jumping up to five
times a week or even once a day they
notice more overall views and account
engagement so play around with different
frequencies of posting to find your own
sweet spot and your own audience's Sweet
Spot strategy number 20 is to start a
new account and I know this might sound
crazy I know it might sound scary but we
did an entire episode of this just a few
weeks ago on how to start over how to
start from scratch and if you even
should consider that as an option but
often times new accounts can grow faster
and get more engagement so it might be
something to consider strategy number 21
is another thing that we've done in an
entire episode to build your tribe on
recently and that is direct message
automation we have seen extremely high
engagement rates when using DM
automation on our accounts but of course
just speaking of Engagement which is the
topic of today's episode using direct
message automation provided by many chat
significantly boosts your engagement
it's a great way to get more comment
which then of course leads to to more
views which of course can lead to more
likes it's what we're all looking for DM
automation Game Changer strategy number
22 is to use the remix or the Stitch
feature on Instagram it's a great way to
add on to someone's already great video
someone's already viral piece of content
you can add your own two cents you can
add a new ending you can spice things up
give your own two cents whatever it may
be add your side of the story using that
feature and really using any of these
fun creative features that Instagram
offers for us is a great way to spice
things up and increase your engagement
strategy number 23 is to post at
different times oftentimes we stick to
one time because it's just easy for us
or someone told us it was the best time
or some random blog that we read said
that that's the time we have to post
when really there is no Universal best
time and worrying about the time you're
posting is an outdated strategy so in
2024 vary the time that you're posting
heck even try posting at 11:00 at night
or scheduling a post to be shared at
2:00 in the morning try out different
things to see if one of them really pops
off for your engagement and then
strategy number 24 is the strategy that
you don't want to hear the strategy that
you hear every single day and that is to
stay consistent eventually you will have
a post that goes viral you will have
great engagement eventually you will be
that Mega influencer the person who has
amazing business results from their
Instagram that will happen that will be
you but only if you stay consistent I
know it's possible for you I know you
can stay consistent I know it's hard I
know it ain't easy but also if you do so
if you stay consistent if you keep
posting if you keep improving you will
grow and your engagement will come back
thank you so much for listening today I
hope at least one of these 24 strategies
is worth giving a shot for you and
actually provide some beneficial results
I hope you learned something new and as
always happy
networking
[Music]